README.md, before:

# Mindchain AI

_web3bridge in house hackathon_  
Mindchain AI showcases how on-chain infrastructure can gate and augment AI experiences. Users can buy usage credits, submit knowledge, run real-time MNIST inference, and access hybrid LLM responses—all backed by Stylus smart contracts and modern AI tooling.

## Why it matters
- **Trustless metering:** Credits for AI usage are enforced on-chain, not by a centralized gateway.
- **Community knowledge:** Anyone can contribute mental-health or ML tips that get surfaced directly in the app.
- **Full-stack demo:** Stylus smart contracts, React frontend, Flask ML service, and a Gemini-backed chat API all play together.

## Usefulness & impact
- **Proof of decentralized AI access:** Shows investors and collaborators how Stylus contracts can meter model usage without handing trust to a third party.
- **Hackathon-ready demo:** Judges can mint credits, draw digits, and receive AI answers in minutes—perfect for showcasing technical breadth.
- **Community-driven intelligence:** Knowledge submissions are on-chain, making the chatbot’s guidance auditable and improvable by contributors.
- **Extensible wallet gating:** Any API (vision, speech, etc.) can plug into the same authorization contract, making the repo a boilerplate for future AI/Web3 integrations.
- **Educational value:** Serves as a reference for developers learning Stylus, ethers v6, Gemini/OpenAI integration, and cross-service orchestration in under 24 hours.

## Feature overview
- ✅ Stylus `purchase → balance → markUsage` flow for AI credits on Arbitrum Sepolia.
- ✅ Knowledge submission & voting contract with tuple ABI return.
- ✅ React experience with drawing canvas (MNIST), credit dashboard, knowledge feed, AI chat.
- ✅ Flask MNIST model hosting with TensorFlow `model.keras` weights.
- ✅ Gemini (and optional OpenAI) backed AI chat with on-chain credit enforcement.
- ✅ One-click hackathon demo script & troubleshooting tips.

## Architecture snapshot
```
mnist-draw (React) ──▶ Flask MNIST API (/mnist_api)
   │                 └▶ Stylus contracts (Arbitrum Sepolia)
   └──▶ GPT API (Node + Gemini/OpenAI) ─┘

Stylus contracts
├─ ApiAuthorization  → credit purchase & spend
└─ KnowledgeShare    → crowd-sourced knowledge base
```

## System components
| Layer | Technology | Responsibilities |
|-------|------------|------------------|
| Frontend | React 18, Vite, Tailwind, wagmi + ethers v6 | Wallet connect, credit purchase, knowledge UI, MNIST canvas, chat panel |
| Smart contracts | Rust + Stylus SDK | Credit ledger & knowledge registry, deployed to Arbitrum Sepolia |
| AI inference | Flask + TensorFlow | `POST /predict` endpoint serving MNIST classifier |
| AI chat | Node/Express, Gemini SDK, optional OpenAI SDK | Validates credits, generates responses, calls `markUsage` |
| Tooling | Cargo, npm, Python, MetaMask | Local development and contract deployment |

## Repository layout
| Path | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `contracts/api_authorization` | Stylus contract for purchase + credit accounting |
| `contracts/knowledge_share` | Stylus contract for collecting and voting on knowledge snippets |
| `mnist-draw/` | Vite + React frontend for purchase, knowledge share, MNIST drawing, AI chat |
| `mnist_api/` | Flask + TensorFlow service hosting the MNIST digit classifier |
| `gpt_api/` | Node/Express service calling Gemini/OpenAI with on-chain credit checks |
| `trainer/` | Scripts and model assets for training the MNIST classifier |

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ and npm
- Python 3.12 with `pip` (installed via `python3 -m ensurepip --expand` if needed)
- Rust toolchain + Cargo with Stylus CLI (`cargo install cargo-stylus cargo-stylus-check`)
- MetaMask (or any wallet able to connect to Arbitrum Sepolia)
- Some Sepolia ETH for credit purchases and contract calls (get from faucet)

## Environment configuration
| File | Key | Purpose |
|------|-----|---------|
| `gpt_api/.env` | `GEMINI_API_KEY`, `OPENAI_API_KEY`, `RPC_URL`, `PRIVATE_KEY`, `PORT` | AI chat credentials & chain connection |
| `mnist-draw/src/utils/contracts.ts` | `AUTHORIZATION`, `KNOWLEDGE_PUBLISH`, `API_URL` | Contract addresses and ML API base URL |
| `mnist_api/` | uses `model.keras` | No envs required by default |

**Important:** never commit real API keys or private keys. `.gitignore` already excludes `.env` files.

## Quickstart
```bash
# 1. Start MNIST inference API
tmux new-session -d -s mnist-api "cd mnist_api && python3 app.py"

# 2. Start GPT chat API (Gemini only if OpenAI is absent)
tmux new-session -d -s gpt-api "cd gpt_api && npm run start"

# 3. Frontend
cd mnist-draw
npm install
npm run dev -- --host   # http://localhost:5173
```
Hit `Ctrl+C` or `tmux kill-session -t <name>` to stop each service.

## Smart contracts (Arbitrum Sepolia)
| Contract | Address | Highlights |
|----------|---------|------------|
| `ApiAuthorization` | `0x0b6ae13119fc3b61d6abb115342a1a075e14b6b6` | `purchase()`, `balanceOf()`, `markUsage()` |
| `KnowledgeShare` | `0xc947ef14370f74cce4d325ee4d83d9b4f3639da7` | `share()`, `getSubmittedKnowledge()`, `vote()` |

Both contracts are written in Rust via Stylus SDK. Deployment commands:
```bash
cargo stylus check --endpoint https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc
cargo stylus deploy --endpoint ... --private-key-path <key>
```
Remember to run `setOwner()` once on `KnowledgeShare` after deployment.

## Frontend (mnist-draw)
```bash
cd mnist-draw
npm install
npm run dev -- --host    # http://localhost:5173
```
Features:
- **Wallet onboarding:** auto-switches MetaMask to Arbitrum Sepolia.
- **Purchase credits:** calls `purchase()` and updates balance.
- **Knowledge share:** submit + read tuples from `KnowledgeShare`.
- **MNIST inference:** draw digits, POST to the Flask service, display prediction.
- **AI Chat:** sends a prompt to the GPT API server and decrements on-chain credits.

Update the config in `src/utils/contracts.ts` whenever addresses change:
```ts
export const AUTHORIZATION = "0x0b6ae13119fc3b61d6abb115342a1a075e14b6b6";
export const KNOWLEDGE_PUBLISH = "0xc947ef14370f74cce4d325ee4d83d9b4f3639da7";
export const API_URL = "http://127.0.0.1:5000"; // Flask MNIST API
```

## MNIST prediction API
```bash
cd mnist_api
python3 app.py
```
- Loads `model.keras` and exposes `POST /predict` (28×28 JSON array in, digit out).
- Requires `tensorflow`, `flask`, `flask-cors` (already installed via pip `--user`).

## GPT API (Gemini / OpenAI bridge)
```bash
cd gpt_api
npm install
npm run start
```
`.env` sample:
```
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=                             # optional fallback
RPC_URL=https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc
PRIVATE_KEY=0x...
PORT=8000
```
- Checks `balanceOf(ethAddress)` before responding.
- Uses Gemini by default, falls back to OpenAI when configured.
- Calls `markUsage(ethAddress)` after each successful reply.

## Data & models
- **MNIST digits:** pre-trained CNN stored at `mnist_api/model.keras`. Training notebook lives in `trainer/` if you want to retrain.
- **Knowledge prompts:** curated by the community through the `KnowledgeShare` contract. Initial submissions can be seeded via script or manual UI forms.
- **AI chat prompt engineering:** currently generic but easily swapped with the mental health scaffolding from prior projects (see `gpt_api/src/main.js → generateResponse`).

## Testing & verification
- **Authorization smoke test:**
  ```bash
  cd contracts/api_authorization
  CARGO_TARGET_DIR=target-local \
  RPC_URL=https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc \
  STYLUS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x0b6ae13119fc3b61d6abb115342a1a075e14b6b6 \
  PRIV_KEY_PATH=/path/to/private/key \
  cargo run --example smoke
  ```
- **KnowledgeShare check:**
  ```bash
  cd contracts/knowledge_share
  cargo stylus check --endpoint https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc
  ```
- **Frontend lint/build:** `npm run build`
- **Manual QA:** Use the quickstart flow to confirm credit purchase, knowledge submission, MNIST prediction, and chat credit deduction all succeed.

## Demo script (for judges)
1. Show contracts on Arbiscan at their addresses.
2. Connect wallet on frontend → auto-switch to Arbitrum Sepolia.
3. Purchase 1 credit with MetaMask.
4. Share a knowledge snippet and refresh list.
5. Draw digit “7” → `Predict` (MNIST API responds).
6. Ask the AI chat a simple mental health or ML question → receive Gemini answer, watch credits decrement.
7. Open `KnowledgeShare` contract events to show logs.

## Troubleshooting
| Issue | Fix |
|-------|-----|
| `MetaMask no network` | Reload after connecting; confirm Arbitrum Sepolia is approved |
| `purchase` reverts | Ensure wallet has ≥0.003 Sepolia ETH; check RPC URL |
| `GET /predict 405` | Use POST request; make sure Flask server is running |
| `Gemini 400 Invalid JSON payload` | Restart GPT API after latest code (uses string prompt) |
| `OpenAI model not found` | Either leave `OPENAI_API_KEY` empty or set `OPENAI_MODEL` to available model |
| `MNIST predictions always same digit` | Verify `model.keras` is present and input array shape is 28×28 |

## Hackathon achievements
- Working Stylus contracts deployed to Arbitrum Sepolia.
- Full-stack integration: React frontend, Rust contracts, Python and Node APIs.
- Demonstrates decentralized credit gating, community knowledge capture, and multi-model AI orchestration.

## Future enhancements
- Faucet or admin tooling for demo credits.
- Docker Compose to spin everything up in one command.
- Stream knowledge submissions as events from `LimitReached` log.
- Additional AI models (audio, image) gated by the same authorization contract.
- Integrate mental health prompt engineering module for production-ready empathetic responses.

## Team
Built by the Web3Bridge in-house hackathon team:
- Daniel Selaru
- Tyler Valyn Thor
- Tisca Catalin
- Mentors & contributors from The Real One AI community

---
Questions or improvements? Open an issue or DM the hackathon team. "THE REAL ONE AI" is always looking for contributors who believe decentralized AI should be beautiful—and on-chain. 💫

Commit message:

Enhance README with project rationale and features
Added rationale for the project and clarified features, including AI credit usage, community contributions, and demo capabilities. Updated details on model hosting and environment setup.

README.md, after:

# Mindchain AI

_web3bridge in house hackathon_  
Mindchain AI showcases how on-chain infrastructure can gate and augment AI experiences. Users can buy usage credits, submit knowledge, run real-time MNIST inference, and access hybrid LLM responses—all backed by Stylus smart contracts and modern AI tooling.

## Why we need it
- **Centralized AI access is fragile:** Traditional API keys can be overused, leaked, or revoked without warning; on-chain credits give builders continuous, auditable control over usage.
- **Trust in AI responses matters:** By anchoring the chatbot’s context to an on-chain knowledge base, teams can see exactly who contributed each insight and build confidence in the assistant’s tone.
- **Hackathons demand tangible proof:** Investors and judges get a single demo where wallets purchase credits, models run, and governance happens—showing that decentralized AI isn’t just slideware.
- **Reusable boilerplate for future products:** The repo doubles as a template for any team that wants to gate ML endpoints with Stylus contracts and Privy onboarding.

## Why it matters
- **Trustless metering:** Credits for AI usage are enforced on-chain, not by a centralized gateway.
- **Community knowledge:** Anyone can contribute mental-health or ML tips that get surfaced directly in the app.
- **Full-stack demo:** Stylus smart contracts, React frontend, Flask ML service, and a Gemini-backed chat API all play together.

## Usefulness & impact
- **Proof of decentralized AI access:** Shows investors and collaborators how Stylus contracts can meter model usage without handing trust to a third party.
- **Hackathon-ready demo:** Judges can mint credits, draw digits, and receive AI answers in minutes—perfect for showcasing technical breadth.
- **Community-driven intelligence:** Knowledge submissions are on-chain, making the chatbot’s guidance auditable and improvable by contributors.
- **Extensible wallet gating:** Any API (vision, speech, etc.) can plug into the same authorization contract, making the repo a boilerplate for future AI/Web3 integrations.
- **Educational value:** Serves as a reference for developers learning Stylus, ethers v6, Gemini/OpenAI integration, and cross-service orchestration in under 24 hours.
- **Roadmap:** Anchor chatbot tone to community tips by feeding `KnowledgeShare` submissions into the AI prompt pipeline for transparent provenance.

## Feature overview
- ✅ Stylus `purchase → balance → markUsage` flow for AI credits on Arbitrum Sepolia.
- ✅ Knowledge submission & voting contract with tuple ABI return.
- ✅ React experience with drawing canvas (MNIST), credit dashboard, knowledge feed, AI chat.
- ✅ Privy-powered wallet onboarding with embedded wallet fallback and dropdown actions.
- ✅ Flask MNIST inference: TensorFlow Lite runtime on `main`, full TensorFlow on `master`.
- ✅ Gemini (and optional OpenAI) backed AI chat with on-chain credit enforcement.
- ✅ One-click hackathon demo script & troubleshooting tips

## Architecture snapshot
```
mnist-draw (React) ──▶ Flask MNIST API (/mnist_api)
   │                 └▶ Stylus contracts (Arbitrum Sepolia)
   └──▶ GPT API (Node + Gemini/OpenAI) ─┘

Stylus contracts
├─ ApiAuthorization  → credit purchase & spend
└─ KnowledgeShare    → crowd-sourced knowledge base
```

## System components
| Layer | Technology | Responsibilities |
|-------|------------|------------------|
| Frontend | React 18, Vite, Tailwind, wagmi + ethers v6 | Wallet connect, credit purchase, knowledge UI, MNIST canvas, chat panel |
| Smart contracts | Rust + Stylus SDK | Credit ledger & knowledge registry, deployed to Arbitrum Sepolia |
| AI inference | Flask + TensorFlow Lite (`main`) / TensorFlow (`master`) | `POST /predict` endpoint serving MNIST classifier |
| AI chat | Node/Express, Gemini SDK, optional OpenAI SDK | Validates credits, generates responses, calls `markUsage` |
| Tooling | Cargo, npm, Python, MetaMask | Local development and contract deployment |

## Repository layout
| Path | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `contracts/api_authorization` | Stylus contract for purchase + credit accounting |
| `contracts/knowledge_share` | Stylus contract for collecting and voting on knowledge snippets |
| `mnist-draw/` | Vite + React frontend for purchase, knowledge share, MNIST drawing, AI chat |
| `mnist_api/` | Flask + TensorFlow service hosting the MNIST digit classifier |
| `gpt_api/` | Node/Express service calling Gemini/OpenAI with on-chain credit checks |
| `trainer/` | Scripts and model assets for training the MNIST classifier |

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ and npm
- Python 3.12 with `pip` (installed via `python3 -m ensurepip --expand` if needed)
- Rust toolchain + Cargo with Stylus CLI (`cargo install cargo-stylus cargo-stylus-check`)
- MetaMask (or any wallet able to connect to Arbitrum Sepolia)
- Some Sepolia ETH for credit purchases and contract calls (get from faucet)

## Environment configuration
| File | Key | Purpose |
|------|-----|---------|
| `gpt_api/.env` | `GEMINI_API_KEY`, `OPENAI_API_KEY`, `RPC_URL`, `PRIVATE_KEY`, `PORT` | AI chat credentials & chain connection |
| `mnist-draw/src/utils/contracts.ts` | `AUTHORIZATION`, `KNOWLEDGE_PUBLISH`, `API_URL` | Contract addresses and ML API base URL |
| `mnist-draw/.env` | `VITE_PRIVY_APP_ID` | Privy App ID for the wallet connect flow |
| `mnist_api/` | `model.tflite` (main) / `model.keras` (master) | No envs required by default |

**Important:** never commit real API keys or private keys. `.gitignore` already excludes `.env` files.

## Quickstart
```bash
# 1. Start MNIST inference API
tmux new-session -d -s mnist-api "cd mnist_api && python3 app.py"

# 2. Start GPT chat API (Gemini only if OpenAI is absent)
tmux new-session -d -s gpt-api "cd gpt_api && npm run start"

# 3. Frontend
cd mnist-draw
npm install
npm run dev -- --host   # http://localhost:5173
```
Create a `mnist-draw/.env` file (or export variables) with:
```
VITE_PRIVY_APP_ID=your_privy_app_id
```
Hit `Ctrl+C` or `tmux kill-session -t <name>` to stop each service.

## Smart contracts (Arbitrum Sepolia)
| Contract | Address | Highlights |
|----------|---------|------------|
| `ApiAuthorization` | `0x0b6ae13119fc3b61d6abb115342a1a075e14b6b6` | `purchase()`, `balanceOf()`, `markUsage()` |
| `KnowledgeShare` | `0xc947ef14370f74cce4d325ee4d83d9b4f3639da7` | `share()`, `getSubmittedKnowledge()`, `vote()` |

Both contracts are written in Rust via Stylus SDK. Deployment commands:
```bash
cargo stylus check --endpoint https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc
cargo stylus deploy --endpoint ... --private-key-path <key>
```
Remember to run `setOwner()` once on `KnowledgeShare` after deployment.

## Frontend (mnist-draw)
```bash
cd mnist-draw
npm install
npm run dev -- --host    # http://localhost:5173
```
Features:
- **Wallet onboarding:** auto-switches MetaMask to Arbitrum Sepolia.
- **Purchase credits:** calls `purchase()` and updates balance.
- **Knowledge share:** submit + read tuples from `KnowledgeShare`.
- **MNIST inference:** draw digits, POST to the Flask service, display prediction.
- **AI Chat:** sends a prompt to the GPT API server and decrements on-chain credits.

Update the config in `src/utils/contracts.ts` whenever addresses change:
```ts
export const AUTHORIZATION = "0x0b6ae13119fc3b61d6abb115342a1a075e14b6b6";
export const KNOWLEDGE_PUBLISH = "0xc947ef14370f74cce4d325ee4d83d9b4f3639da7";
export const API_URL = "http://127.0.0.1:5000"; // Flask MNIST API
```

## MNIST prediction API
```bash
cd mnist_api
python3 app.py
```
- `main` branch loads `model.tflite` via the TensorFlow Lite runtime—small enough for Render’s Starter plan.
- `master` branch keeps the original `model.keras` + full TensorFlow stack for local experiments.
- Both expose `POST /predict` (28×28 JSON array in, digit out) with identical request/response shapes.
- Install dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt` from the respective branch (Lite vs. full TensorFlow).

### Production vs. local MNIST runtimes
- **Why the switch?** Render’s free tier provides ~512 MB RAM; the full TensorFlow runtime plus `model.keras` exceeded that, so Gunicorn workers were OOM-killed and the service returned 502.
- **Production (`main`):** ships a 226 KB `model.tflite` + `tflite-runtime`, keeping memory tiny so the API stays alive on Render.
- **Local / heavy (`master`):** retains full TensorFlow for developers who want to retrain, fine-tune, or debug with the original Keras model.
- **Branch workflow:** default deploys come from `main`. Check out `master` only when you need the heavier stack (`git checkout master`), then switch back to `main` before pushing to production.

## GPT API (Gemini / OpenAI bridge)
```bash
cd gpt_api
npm install
npm run start
```
`.env` sample:
```
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_gemini_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=                             # optional fallback
RPC_URL=https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc
PRIVATE_KEY=0x...
PORT=8000
```
- Checks `balanceOf(ethAddress)` before responding.
- Uses Gemini by default, falls back to OpenAI when configured.
- Calls `markUsage(ethAddress)` after each successful reply.

## Data & models
- **MNIST digits:** pre-trained CNN checkpoint stored as `mnist_api/model.tflite` on `main` (and `model.keras` on `master`). Training notebook lives in `trainer/` if you want to retrain.
- **Knowledge prompts:** curated by the community through the `KnowledgeShare` contract. Initial submissions can be seeded via script or manual UI forms.
- **AI chat prompt engineering:** currently generic but easily swapped with the mental health scaffolding from prior projects (see `gpt_api/src/main.js → generateResponse`).

## Testing & verification
- **Authorization smoke test:**
  ```bash
  cd contracts/api_authorization
  CARGO_TARGET_DIR=target-local \
  RPC_URL=https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc \
  STYLUS_CONTRACT_ADDRESS=0x0b6ae13119fc3b61d6abb115342a1a075e14b6b6 \
  PRIV_KEY_PATH=/path/to/private/key \
  cargo run --example smoke
  ```
- **KnowledgeShare check:**
  ```bash
  cd contracts/knowledge_share
  cargo stylus check --endpoint https://sepolia-rollup.arbitrum.io/rpc
  ```
- **Frontend lint/build:** `npm run build`
- **Manual QA:** Use the quickstart flow to confirm credit purchase, knowledge submission, MNIST prediction, and chat credit deduction all succeed.

## Demo script (for judges)
1. Show contracts on Arbiscan at their addresses.
2. Connect wallet on frontend → auto-switch to Arbitrum Sepolia.
3. Purchase 1 credit with MetaMask.
4. Share a knowledge snippet and refresh list.
5. Draw digit “7” → `Predict` (MNIST API responds).
6. Ask the AI chat a simple mental health or ML question → receive Gemini answer, watch credits decrement.
7. Open `KnowledgeShare` contract events to show logs.

## Troubleshooting
| Issue | Fix |
|-------|-----|
| `MetaMask no network` | Reload after connecting; confirm Arbitrum Sepolia is approved |
| `purchase` reverts | Ensure wallet has ≥0.003 Sepolia ETH; check RPC URL |
| `GET /predict 405` | Use POST request; make sure Flask server is running |
| `Gemini 400 Invalid JSON payload` | Restart GPT API after latest code (uses string prompt) |
| `OpenAI model not found` | Either leave `OPENAI_API_KEY` empty or set `OPENAI_MODEL` to available model |
| `MNIST predictions always same digit` | Verify `model.keras` is present and input array shape is 28×28 |

## Hackathon achievements
- Working Stylus contracts deployed to Arbitrum Sepolia.
- Full-stack integration: React frontend, Rust contracts, Python and Node APIs.
- Demonstrates decentralized credit gating, community knowledge capture, and multi-model AI orchestration.

## Future enhancements
- Faucet or admin tooling for demo credits.
- Docker Compose to spin everything up in one command.
- Stream knowledge submissions as events from `LimitReached` log.
- Additional AI models (audio, image) gated by the same authorization contract.
- Integrate mental health prompt engineering module for production-ready empathetic responses.

## Team
Built by the Web3Bridge in-house hackathon team:
- Daniel Selaru
- Tyler Valyn Thor
- Tisca Catalin
- Mentors & contributors from The Real One AI community

---
Questions or improvements? Open an issue or DM the hackathon team. "THE REAL ONE AI" is always looking for contributors who believe decentralized AI should be beautiful—and on-chain. 💫
